README.md, before:

> [crossfields.tech@gmail.com](mailto:crossfields.tech@gmail.com) |
> [+61410009778](tel:+61410009778) |
> [linkedIn](href:https://www.linkedin.com/in/nathan-collins-853416104/) |
> [github](https://github.com/crossfields-technology) |
> [github2](https://github.com/nathan-collins) |
> [gitlab](https://gitlab.com/nathancollins)

# Nathan Collins - Senior Full Stack Developer

- 15+ years experience as a software engineer in various industries.
- Full stack skill-set with a concentration on front-end engineering in the last 5 years.
- Become more active in the open source environment again.

# Skills

- Architectural Pattern - Model View Controller, Server side rendering, Restful API design patterns, Service layer.
- Scalable Architecture - Stateless design, Load balancing, Map Reduce.
- Methodology - Agile, Scrum, Cross-platform development.
- Code review - Software quality assurance, maintainability.
- Repositories - github, gitlab, bitbucket.
- Code editors - vs code, intellij, php storm, web storm. (many others but a bit out of touch)

# Tools

- Framework/Libraries - ES6, ES7, Polymer, LitElement, React, Node.js, Express, PHP, Laravel, Code Igniter. Ruby, JQuery, Electron, Docker.
- CSS Framework/Libraries - Bootstrap, CSS Grid, Flexbox.
- Environment - Firebase, Google cloud services.
- Databases - Mysql, Postgres, Firestore, Real time database, Google cloud, MongoDB, Couchbase, AWS.
- Automation software - Webpack, Gulp, Jenkins.
- Testing Suite - PHPUnit, Codeception, Mocha, Chai, Sinon, Selenium.

# Projects

## Aroma, Noosa, Queensland

Technical Lead
_August 2018 - August 2019_

- Asset management system initially designed for vending machines, with the design to make it available for all unattended assets.
- Progressive web application. (Polymer, Firebase, Firestore, Mysql migration)
- Extremely complex application to allow for a worldwide of scenarios.
- Startup application designed to scale but to also develop quickly.
- Event driven system with 7 different log environemnt. (Firestore moved to Big query)

## MyCtars, Eyeonit, Maroochydore Queensland

Frontend Devleloper
_November 2017 - December 2017_

- Health NDIS startup app designed to help a person manage their NDIS account for ctars.
- Desktop and mobile application. (React, API integration, PWA, Accessibility integration, Flexbox)
- Greenfields app that integrated with existing client database through an api. (.net & NodeJS)

## Audit Portal, Eyeonit, Maroochdore Queensland

Frontend Developer (Software engineer)
_January 2017 - August 2018_

- Audit management portal designed to help telstra maintain audit procedures.
- Created authentication using OAuth2. (Polymer, .net)
- Config file to generate all audit procedures.
- Easily customisable.
- Connection to API (.net)

## Mobile & Desktop app personalised dashboard prototype, Eyeonit, Maroochydore

Software engineer
_November 2017 - December 2017_

- A mobile app designed to showcase our AgentQ product in a mobile phone or a desktop environment, the app was personalised for each user when they received a call through the TIPT service.
- Develop a desktop environment that can be used in Windows, Linux and Apple. (Electron, PWA, Polymer, CSS, API, Node, ES6)
- Develop a mobile environment that can be used on many devices. (Cordova, PWA, Polymer, CSS, API)
- Live interactive charts so a managers could view changes on a call quickly. (Google charts)

## Profiling application - University of Southern Queensland (Contracted position)

Frontend developer
_December 2016_

- Create a mobile application for profiling primary students.
- Animated screening project that allowed a user to select multiple options. (Nodejs, Angular, MongoDB, CSS)
- Multimedia implementation to guide students through the process.
- Unit and UI tests.

## Italic Creative - NDIS application (Contracted position)

Frontend Developer & Testing implementation Software engineer
_November 2016 (1 month)_

- Implement tests to add confidence in the application. (Chai, mocha, sinai)
- Integrate Continuos integration the repository. (pipelines, github)
- Fix up existing bugs in the system and correct styling. (Polymer, )

## Square Cloud - NDIS API implementation (Contracted position)

Software engineer
_October 2016 (1 month)_

- Implement an API for the upcoming client. (PHP, Laravel, Swagger)

## Yesheis mobile and desktop applications

Full stack Developer
_August 2010 - July 2016_

- Version 1 of the website. (Drupal, mysql)
- Version 2 of the website. (Laravel, API driven)
- Statistics storage, retrieval and synchronisation. (Mysql, Couchbase)
- Social integration and authentication. (Disqus, )
- Internationalization - We supplied a service for 13 different countries. (Drupal, Laravel, Jquery, SCSS)
- Scaling for 80,000 users a second. (Varnish, Caching, Load Balancing, Minification)
- Continuos integration. (Team city, Ansible)
- Local environments to match live server environments. (Ansible)
- Content aggregation for many different countries.
- Centralised translation service so any person can translate. (Service since depricated)
- Video aggregation through many different services. (you tube, vimeo, youku, etc....)

## Customised statistic service

- Version 1 (Vanilla, PHP, Mysql, Load Balancing)
- Version 2 (Vanilla PHP, Couchbase, Replication)
- Statistics storage, retrieval, synchronisation & replication

## Yesheis.com API

- The api to connect to mobile and web application. (Laravel, Mysql)
- 3 versions of the api for multiple services.
- Central Authentication.
- Multilingual & Internationalisation.

## Show2.me website - Branding website for yesheis

- Version 1 of the website. (Laravel, Connecting to yesheis API, jquery, Bootstrap)
- Content video aggreation.
- Social integration. (Twitter, facebook, baidu, weibo)

Commit message:

Seperate eyeonit and add testing and code processes

README.md, after:

> [crossfields.tech@gmail.com](mailto:crossfields.tech@gmail.com) |
> [+61410009778](tel:+61410009778) |
> [linkedIn](href:https://www.linkedin.com/in/nathan-collins-853416104/) |
> [github](https://github.com/crossfields-technology) |
> [github2](https://github.com/nathan-collins) |
> [gitlab](https://gitlab.com/nathancollins)

# Nathan Collins - Senior Full Stack Developer

- 15+ years experience as a software engineer in various industries.
- Full stack skill-set with a concentration on front-end engineering in the last 5 years.
- Become more active in the open source environment again.

# Skills

- Architectural Pattern - Model View Controller, Server side rendering, Restful API design patterns, Service layer.
- Scalable Architecture - Stateless design, Load balancing, Map Reduce.
- Methodology - Agile, Scrum, Cross-platform development.
- Code review - Software quality assurance, maintainability.
- Repositories - github, gitlab, bitbucket.
- Code editors - vs code, intellij, php storm, web storm. (many others but a bit out of touch)
- Standards - Coding standards and testing implementation (UI, unit and integration)

# Tools

- Framework/Libraries - ES6, ES7, Polymer, LitElement, React, Node.js, Express, PHP, Laravel, Code Igniter. Ruby, JQuery, Electron, Docker.
- CSS Framework/Libraries - Bootstrap, CSS Grid, Flexbox.
- Environment - Firebase, Google cloud services.
- Databases - Mysql, Postgres, Firestore, Real time database, Google cloud, MongoDB, Couchbase, AWS.
- Automation software - Webpack, Gulp, Jenkins.
- Testing Suite - PHPUnit, Codeception, Mocha, Chai, Sinon, Selenium.

# Projects

## Aroma, Noosa, Queensland

Technical Lead
_August 2018 - August 2019_

- Asset management system initially designed for vending machines, with the design to make it available for all unattended assets.
- Progressive web application. (Polymer, Firebase, Firestore, Mysql migration)
- Extremely complex application to allow for a worldwide of scenarios.
- Startup application designed to scale but to also develop quickly.
- Event driven system with 7 different log environemnt. (Firestore moved to Big query)
- Coding standards, documentation and testing implementation (UI, unit and integration)
- Code review procedure
- Staff training

## Eyeonit, Maroochydore Queensland

_January 2017 - August 2018_

- Coding standards, documentation and testing implementation (UI, unit and integration)
- Code review procedure
- Staff training
- Hiring a frontend team

### MyCtars

Frontend Developer
_November 2017 - December 2017_

- Health NDIS startup app designed to help a person manage their NDIS account for ctars.
- Desktop and mobile application. (React, API integration, PWA, Accessibility integration, Flexbox)
- Greenfields app that integrated with existing client database through an api. (.net & NodeJS)

### Mobile & Desktop app personalised dashboard prototype

Software engineer
_October 2017 - November 2017_

- A mobile app designed to showcase our AgentQ product in a mobile phone or a desktop environment, the app was personalised for each user when they received a call through the TIPT service.
- Develop a desktop environment that can be used in Windows, Linux and Apple. (Electron, PWA, Polymer, CSS, API, Node, ES6)
- Develop a mobile environment that can be used on many devices. (Cordova, PWA, Polymer, CSS, API)
- Live interactive charts so a managers could view changes on a call quickly. (Google charts)

### Audit Portal

Frontend Developer (Software engineer)
_January 2017 - August 2018_

- Audit management portal designed to help telstra maintain audit procedures.
- Created authentication using OAuth2. (Polymer, .net)
- Config file to generate all audit procedures.
- Easily customisable.
- Connection to API (.net)

### Profiling application - University of Southern Queensland (Contracted position)

Frontend developer
_December 2016_

- Create a mobile application for profiling primary students.
- Animated screening project that allowed a user to select multiple options. (Nodejs, Angular, MongoDB, CSS)
- Multimedia implementation to guide students through the process.
- Unit and UI tests.

## Italic Creative - NDIS application (Contracted position)

Frontend Developer & Testing implementation Software engineer
_November 2016 (1 month)_

- Implement tests to add confidence in the application. (Chai, mocha, sinai)
- Integrate Continuos integration the repository. (pipelines, github)
- Fix up existing bugs in the system and correct styling. (Polymer, )

## Square Cloud - NDIS API implementation (Contracted position)

Software engineer
_October 2016 (1 month)_

- Implement an API for the upcoming client. (PHP, Laravel, Swagger)

## Yesheis mobile and desktop applications

Full stack Developer
_August 2010 - July 2016_

- Version 1 of the website. (Drupal, mysql)
- Version 2 of the website. (Laravel, API driven)
- Statistics storage, retrieval and synchronisation. (Mysql, Couchbase)
- Social integration and authentication. (Disqus, )
- Internationalization - We supplied a service for 13 different countries. (Drupal, Laravel, Jquery, SCSS)
- Scaling for 80,000 users a second. (Varnish, Caching, Load Balancing, Minification)
- Continuos integration. (Team city, Ansible)
- Local environments to match live server environments. (Ansible)
- Content aggregation for many different countries.
- Centralised translation service so any person can translate. (Service since depricated)
- Video aggregation through many different services. (you tube, vimeo, youku, etc....)

## Customised statistic service

- Version 1 (Vanilla, PHP, Mysql, Load Balancing)
- Version 2 (Vanilla PHP, Couchbase, Replication)
- Statistics storage, retrieval, synchronisation & replication

## Yesheis.com API

- The api to connect to mobile and web application. (Laravel, Mysql)
- 3 versions of the api for multiple services.
- Central Authentication.
- Multilingual & Internationalisation.

## Show2.me website - Branding website for yesheis

- Version 1 of the website. (Laravel, Connecting to yesheis API, jquery, Bootstrap)
- Content video aggreation.
- Social integration. (Twitter, facebook, baidu, weibo)
